# Getting Started With the Talon Alphabet

I'm going to practice spelling things with Talon!

In order to bring up a Talon pop-up to reference the alphabet commands, say the following command: 'help alphabet'
To close the popup window, say the command: 'help close'
# Learning The Alphabet Piece By Piece

Try saying the command phrase "air trap air red air plex yank"
This spells ataraxy, which is my name.  
The Talon phonetic alphabet allows you to spell quickly and accurately. 

It's a lot easier to learn the Talon Phonetic Alphabet in groups. 
I'll start with groups of the most common letters and end with groups of the least common letters. 

# Learn the letters N, E, A, T, S, the most common letters of the alphabet

N: near, E: each, A: air, T: trap, s: sun.

Remember, you can look them up with the command 'help alphabet'

neat
sense
nest
sane
teas
seas
sass
ease

# Learn A, R, H, I, D, the next most common Letters

a: air, r: red, h: hard, i: sit, d: drum.

Remember, you can look them up with the command 'help alphabet'

Use the following words for spelling practice

arid
radar
hair
hid
raid
aid
add
air
dada
haha
hid

# Learn L, O, C, U, M, the next most common letters

 l: look, o: odd, u: c: cap, urge, m: made

Remember, you can look them up with the command 'help alphabet'

Use the following words for spelling practice

odd
loom
cool
mull
mucluc
camel
cameo
cocoa
mecca
loam
maul
come

# Learn F, W, Y, G, P

f: fine, w: whale, y: yank, g: gust, p: pit

Remember, you can look them up with the command 'help alphabet'

Use the following words for spelling practice

gape
gawp
wife
yay
yaw
wage
gooey
waif
few
yup
yap
yoyo
woof
wow

# B, V, C, K, Q

b: bat, v: vest, c: cap, k: crunch, q: quest

Remember, you can look them up with the command 'help alphabet'

Use the following words for spelling practice

above
vibe
quack
bivouac
cab
voice
bake
cake
quick
quake
buck
okay
yucky
vie
vicky

# J, X, Z

b: bat, v: vest, c: cap, k: crunch, q: quest

Remember, you can look them up with the command 'help alphabet.'

Use the following words for spelling practice

jazz
abuzz
ax
sax
plex
exit
tizzy
zone
zippy
pizza
extra

# Put it all together

Remember you can look up the letters with the command 'help alphabet.'
Remember you can press the space key by saying 'space.'

Spell out the following sentence: 

the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog

# Capitalizing Letters

In order to capitalize letters, use the shift key.  
say "shift air" in order to write a capital a.  
say "shift bat" in order to write a capital b. 
say "shift air trap air red air plex yank" to spell out my name.


# Numbers 

Numbers in Talon are simple.  
If I say 'one' it will type '1' and if I say 'two' it will type '2.'
If I say five thousand three hundred and sixty it will type 5360. 
If I say 'one two three four five' it will type 12345.

Try typing 123456789

# All done! Credits.  

This tutorial was written by ataraxy at http://ataraxy.consulting on Aug 29, 2021.
It uses the voice control system Talon, version .0-11-0g8007 (11) by aegis at  http://talonvoice.com.
