# Getting Started With Symbols

The next step to replace a keyboard with voice commands is learning how to type special characters. 

Symbols look like this: 	`~!@#$%^&*()_-+={}[]|\:;"'<>,.?/
	

I need symbols in order to punctuate sentences and to write programming languages. 

So it's time to learn the names of Talon's symbols.

#English puncutation characters: See what happens when you say "period comma exclamation point question semicolon colon"

It typed .,!?;:

All of these commands and several alternates can be found on the 'help symbols' menu.

..??!!..??!!??..!!..???.....!!! <- try recreating this
::: ;;; ,,,, ::: ;;; !!! <- try recreating this.

# Parentheticals: Say "inside parens" and see what happens. 

The most common command I use to to insert parenthesis is "inside parens" and it is on the 'help context symbols' list.

Say "left paren space right paren" and see what happens.
I can type parentheses individually with left paren, L paren, R paren, right paren, and a few other commands you can look up with the 'help symbols' menu.

,) () ;) :) (; (, () <- try recreating this


# Characters to Add Quotation Marks: Say "empty string go way right space empty dubstring" and see what happens.

I usually add quotes in pairs. 

'Empty string' is the command for pairs of single quotes, and "empty dubstring" is the command for pairs of double quotes.
Those come from the 'help context symbols' menu. 
Commands for individual symbols include 'quote', 'double quote', and 'apostraphe' and those can be found on the 'help symbols'  


''""''"" <- try recreating this
" ' " ' " ' " ' " ' " ' " ' " ' <- try recreating this

# Math Symbols: Say 'plus minus slash star' and see what happens.  


"Plus" for +, "minus" or 'dash' for '-', "slash" or "forward slash" for division, "star" or "asterisk" for multiplication, all of which are found in the 'help symbols' menu.

+-/*+-/*  <- try recreating this 

Say 'equals less than greater than' and see what happens.

"Equals" for "=", "left angle" or "less than" for <, "right angle" or 'greater than' for >, all of which are found in the 'help symbols' menu.


=<>==<><>== <- try recreating this 


# Brackets and Braces: Say "inside parens go right inside squares go right inside braces go right" and see what happens.

Brackets and braces are essential to programming, and they come in pairs.  

"inside parens" for (), "inside squares" for [], "inside braces" for {}, which can all be seen on the 'help context symbols' menu. 

()[]{} []{}(){} <- try recreating this

"left square" for "[", and right square for "", "left brace" for "{" and right brace for "}" can all be seen on the 'help symbols' menu.

[[ {{ }} ]] <- try recreating this


# Symbols from The Number Row: Say 'back tick tilde at sign hash dollar sign percent caret amperasand' and see what happens.

`~@#$%^&` 

"backtick" for `, tilde for ~. at sign for @, 'hash' for #, "dollar sign" for $, all of which can be found in 'help symbols'

`~@#$ <- try recreating this

'Percent' for %, 'caret' for ^, 'ampersand' for &, all of which are found in the 'help symbols' menu.

%^&&^^%% %%^^&& <- try recreating this


# The Rest: say 'underscore pipe backslash' and see what happens. 

"Underscore" for '_', 'pipe' for |, 'backslash' for \, all of which can be found in the 'help symbols' menu. 

__|_\_|_\__\__\_|__|_|


