# Getting Started With Editing Sentences In Command Mode

It's important to be able to get around in text.

I use the Talon Draft Window to write and edit my text line by line.
You are looking at a version of the Talon Draft Window right now.
Notice how many words have a letter underneath them.
The letters can be used to select the words.

For example, to select "trumpets" I can say "select each" and because trumpets has a letter "e" under it the word trumpets will be selected.
To select the phrase  "trumpets are better than drums"  I can say "select each through sit" and it will select the words between letters 'e' through 'i.'

#Moving Around In the Draft Window   
I can also use the letters to move the cursor.
Try saying 'cursor after gust' and notice how it moves the cursor to the end of the word 'notice.'
Try saying 'cursor before gust' and notice how it will move the cursor to the beginning of the word 'notice.'

 
When when editing, it is important to be able to move character by character by simulating pressing the arrow keys. 
Try saying some of the commands for pressing arrow keys, which are 'go left,' 'go right,' 'go up,' 'go down.'

To make a command repeat itself, add an 'ordinal number' like 'tenth' to the end of the command. 
Try saying 'go right tenth', and 'go left third' and 'go right fifth', and 'go right twice' and observe how the cursor moves back and forth. 


The 'select' command, the 'cursor before/after' command, and the 'go left/right/up/down nth'  command are enough commands to move around in this sentence. 

# Looking up more commands

Since there are about a hundred text selection, text movement, and text editing commands, the next most important thing is to be able to look them up.
Try saying "help search select", which will bring up a search results listing of every command with the words 'select' in it. 
Many of these commands have to do with different ways of selecting text.
Many of these commands have to do with different ways of moving through text. 
The search results listing will show the commands that are active first, and commands that are inactive second.  
So when you see commands under an [INACTIVE] subheading you can stop reading because those commands are won't work in the app you are currently using.
At the top of the first set of search results, it says user.knausj-talon.text.generic_editor.talon [ACTIVE], and if I read the last part and say the command 'help context generic editor,' it will show all the commands in the generic editor file. 
generic editing commands are a good place to look for editing commands.
This is how I find new commands to add to my workflow.

# Editing Sentences

The way I edit things is by selecting them and dictating new writing over the selection.
This also works for filling in blanks. I can select a _____ in a sentence and use Talon letter commands to spell out what I want.  
Practice editing the following sentences by replacing the _____ with words of your choice. 

My name is ___________.
My friend's twitter handle is ____________.
My favorite story/video game character is _______.
My favorite word to spell is __________. 


# Replacing an Individual Word
The command 'word' followed by the word you want can be used to type out individual words.  
Try this by saying 'word spaghetti', or 'word house' or 'word programming.' 


Now use the 'word' command to replace blank lines in the following sentences.
My favorite color is _____.
My favorite programming language is _____.
My favourite sport is _____.

# Phrases
Instead of individual words, it is possible to write entire phrases with the phrase command.
Try this by saying "phrase tubas rock" and "phrase I eat apples" and "phrase look no hands"

Practice filling in the blanks with phrases using the phrase command. 
 Fill in the blanks of some of the following sentences with phrases using the 'phrase' command.
The quick brown fox jumped _____.
My favorite activity is _____.
The title of a song I like is _____.
A movie I recently watched was ______.

# Editing homophones
Homophones are words that sound alike but are spelled differently depending on context, so there is a special command to fix them when voice recognition gets them wrong. 
First, I select a homophone, then I say the command 'phones that'
Try the command 'phones that' with any of the following homophones selected: their, hear, wear, beet.
The homophones menu will appear, and you can choose which one you want by saying the command 'choose 1', 'choose 2', 'choose 3.'

Change homophones in the following sentences: 
I like to make beats.
I don't here very well.
They went to their.  

# Writing sentences 

I work sentenced by sentence.
Try saying the command "Sentence tubas are better than drums period" 
That types out a sentence.  It my case, it typed out "Tubes are better than drums." 

The sentence command allows for typing of simple sentences. 
Try saying the command "sentence i like apples comma bananas comma and oranges period"
Try saying the command "sentence are you there question mark"
Try saying the command "sentence yes exclamation mark"

Type out a few sentences, using the following for ideas if you like. 

Hey I can type sentences.
The internet is full of cat pictures.
Do you use email?
