# Getting Started With Dictating Text In Dictation Mode- UNFINISHED

I do most of my editing in command mode. 

However, dictation mode is designed for dictation.

I do most of my dictation in dictation mode. 


It's important to be able to get around in text.

This tutorial was written Aug 30, 2021, using Talon v 0.2.0-11-g55a7 (40) from talonvoice.com, and the de-facto default Talon script set knausj-talon, found at https://github.com/knausj85/knausj_talon

Accessing The Dictation Help Menu

All of the commands I am going to review in this tutorial are in the Talon Dictation Mode help menu.
To access it, I say the command
help context dictation mode

This brings up a menu.
To navigate in the menu, I use the following commands.
To go to the next block, I say:
help next

To go to the previous block:
help previous

To hide the help menu  I say:
help close
Dictate Text

First, in order to move around in text, I have to have some text to move around in.
The easiest way to get some text to move around in is to switch to dictation mode and dictate something.
Up until now, I have been in command mode.
Command mode is the default mode for Talon, and it contains thousands of command words and phrases.
Dictation mode is far more limited.
It only contains about twenty command words and phrases, and it will write out everything else I say.
When writing, it is easiest to write in dictation mode.
However, when it comes time to edit what I wrote, I find it far easier to edit in command mode.
To switch to dictation mode, say the command:

	dictation mode

And to switch back to command mode, say the command:
	
	command mode

Switch to dictation mode.
When in dictation mode, simply start talking while in any sort of text editor, and it will type out everything you say.

 To capitalize the first word at the beginning of a sentence, use the  command "cap."   
 For example, say "cap this is a sentence"

 That will capitalize the T  at the beginning of " This is a sentence"

 Dictation mode can also do a limited amount of punctuation.

For example, if I say the command:
cap I like apples  comma bananas comma and pineapples semicolon but I don't like bread fruit period

 That would create the sentence  "I like apples, bananas, and pineapples; but I don't like breadfruit."

# Moving Around In Text

The first thing is to switch back into command mode.
A text editor like notepad, for example, or a text box on the internet, or a field on a form.
Navigating around text you aren't editing is a whole different set of keyboard shortcuts.

Learning how to move around in text is important to being able to position the cursor wherever I want it.


Using the arrow keys to move character by character.

	go right
	go left

Go right will move the cursor one character to the right.
Go left will move the cursor one character to the left.

	go up
	go down

'Go up' will move the cursor up one line.
'Go down' will move the cursor down one line.

# Repeating commands

Movement requires a lot of repetition.

The knausj script set has a method to be able to repeat commands.

I can repeat commands by saying one of the ordinal numbers after the command.

An ordinal number is a number like "second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth..." So in order to move eight characters to the right, I could say

	go left eighth

To go up three lines I could say

	go up third


# Moving Word By Word

My favorite way to move is word by word.
The keyboard shortcuts to move word by word are ctrl-right arrow and ctrl left-arrow.
In talon voice commands, that is.
control right

That moves left one word.
If I want to move left five words, 

	control left fifth

There are many, may keyboard shortcuts for navigating around text, but those are the only two I use because they are simple to remember,  they work almost anywhere,  and do most of the job I want to do.

# Selecting Word By Word

My favorite way to select things is also word by word.
Selecting things word by word is exactly the same keyboard shortcut as moving word by word, except saying 'shift.'  So to select the next five words, I can say
shift control right fifth
Replacing Selected Words

Once a phrase is selected if I type anything, whatever I type will overwrite the old phrase.
Talon command mode has several commands that allow you to write out various types of phrases, but my personal favorite is just the term phrase.
phrase the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog

The above command will type out "the quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog"

# Deleting Words

The backspace key is a the key to press when I want to delete something.
Confusingly, in knausj-talon the command for backspace is delete.
So if I want to delete a single character, I say

	delete

If I want to delete a single word, I say
	
	control delete

If I want to delete a the last five words, I  say

	control delete fifth