# Getting Started With The Help Menus

Knausj-Talon comes with a help menu system, which has a lot of very useful things and a few notable absences.

# Help Search

The help search command is the command I use most often.
 If I know at least one word within the command, the help search command will find it.
For example If I say

	help search help

This command brings up every command with the word 'help' in it, which is very useful when trying to remember the help commands.

	help search [any word] 

# Help Context

It is possible to bring up a menu with nearly every command using the Help Context command

	help context

Why is this command named 'help context' instead of 'help menu?" 
Talon has this idea that certain voice commands should be turned on under certain circumstances and certain voice commands should be turned off under certain circumstances.
Or, to put it another way, certain voice commands should be turned on in certain contexts, and turned off in others.
For example, in the context of me having Firefox open and notepad open, I want my Firefox specific commands to be available.
And when Firefox is closed, I want all the firefox commands turned off so they don't clutter up the command graph and accidentally get activated.

So the help context menu is a menu that shows not only commands, but it shows groups of commands that are active in certain contexts.

To navigate the help menus, I do the following; say help and choose a number to select a specific context  A specific context is a grouping of commands.

	help 1

This chooses the first item on the menu.

If you chose a context with a lot of commands, the commands will be split into several pages.
To go to the next page I say

	help next

To go to the previous page, I say

	help previous

To go back to the main menu, I say

	help return
	Help Context

If I know the name of the specific context I want, I can simply say it's name and go directly to it.
 So, for example, ifi want to go to the mouse commands, I say

	help context mouse

And it will open up all of the commands that have to do with clicking mouse buttons.

	Help Active

For those who find the Help Context too overwhelming, the help active command will condense the command list to just the commands that are active.

	help active
	Help Alphabet

The alphabet has it's own special help menu.
 It is pulled up with 'help alphabet.'

	help alphabet
	Help Formatters

The help formatters has it's own special help menu.
I pull it up with the command

	help format

The help format irritates me, since it works differently from every other help menu.
Instead of closing when I say 'help close', it closes when I say

	help format

So it's a toggle.
Which is very annoying.

But Where Are The Symbols?

What the knausj-talon help menu does NOT have is any way of getting a list of all the names for symbols.
Yes, there is a context menu called symbols.talon, but that is a partial list.
The rest of the list is inaccessible from the built-in help.
You have to know where to look in the script set.
 