# Getting Started With The Mouse

Talon can also completely replace a mouse.
The knaujs-talon script set comes with a built-in voice mouse replacement, which, while it does work, I found it frustratingly slow.


# Activating Knausj's Built-In Mouse Grid

The knausj_talon-master directory also has a mouse replacement.
However, it does not come turned on by default.

This is going to involve editing a file, which will be an excellent way to practice some of the commands learned earlier.
First, open up Windows file explorer with the command:  'launch explorer'

Once the Window's file explorer is open, navigate to the Talon user directory with the command: 'go talon user'

This will type in the path to the Talon user directory so that I don't have to spend a huge amount of time locating it.
 I am going to press the tab key a couple of times to get to the pane of the window where talon_knausj-master is located. 'tab'

Once the system focus is in the right pane, (and I can tell this because there is a thin blue line around one of the items in the file pane) I use the arrow keys commands (go up/down/left/right) to go down until I select knausj_talon-master. 

For most peoples starting out, knausj_talon-master will be the only thing in the folder, because knausj_talon-master is the beginning script set.
However, I have about 15 separate folders at the moment and I'm getting more all the time.
If knausj_talon-master is highlighted, I can use the voice command 'enter' to enter to select the folder.

I use the down arrow key to go down to the file named settings.talon.
It happens to be the sixteenth file in the folder, so I can get there by saying: 'go down sixteenth'

Then I press enter to open settings.talon.
By default it will probably open in Notepad.
On my computer, the launch window for notepad is for some reason ridiculously small, so I snap it to the left hand of the screen by saying:
snap left

# Editing the settings.talon File

The particular setting I am after is at the very bottom of this file.
I am going to use a keyboard shortcut to skip to the bottom of the file. 'go down fiftieth'

I repeat the above command twice,because that will put the curser at the bottom of the file.

I see the following line:

# tag(): user.mouse_grid_enabled

That line should look like this line:
tag(): user.mouse_grid_enabled

It is important that I delete both the leading hash mark and the space.
 If I leave the space, it will not work.
 To do this, I use the arrow commands go left/go right/go up/go down.

To put the cursor where I need it, and then I say 'delete' to delete the space and the hash mark.

Save the file by saying 'file save'


# Using The Mouse Grid

The act of saving should have automatically triggered a reload of talon's scripts, and therefore there should be a mouse grid available.
Let's try it.
   
say 'M grid' (pronounced 'em grid')  

This brings up the mouse grid.
This divides a screen into nine sections.
Each section has a number.
If I say one of those numbers, it will zoom in on that section.

So basically the built in mouse grid will use numbers to let me pick smaller and smaller spaces until the mouse is exactly where I want it.
When I've got the mouse where I want it, I say: 'touch' and that will click on the mouse position.

The mouse grid will shut itself off whenever I make any sort of click.

The mouse grid isn't the fastest or the greatest thing, but it is the easiest Talon Voice control mouse to set up, and it will allow me to click anywhere on the screen I want.

# Clicking the Mouse

 There are several different kinds of clicks I can make with a mouse.
 I can find most of them in the help context menu using the command. 'help context mouse'

This brings up the menu with all of the commands that knausj_talon uses to click the mouse.

If I want to make a normal left click, I say 'touch'

If I want to make a right click, I say 'righty'

If I want to double click something, I say 'dubclick'

If I want to triple click  something, I say 'triplick'

And if I want to drag something, I say 'drag'

To start dragging it, and reposition whatever dies in dragging with the mouse grid, and when I'm done I say 'drag' again to drop it off.